Release 2.10.0 (#5324)
timescale/timescaledb: CHANGELOG.md

## Unreleased

## 2.10.0 (2023-02-16)

**Features**
* #4874 Allow joins in continuous aggregates
* #5241 Allow RETURNING clause when inserting into compressed chunks
* #5243 Enable real-time aggregation for continuous aggregates with joins

> * #5245 Mange life-cycle of connections via memory contexts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* #5245 Manage life-cycle of connections via memory contexts
```

* #5246 Make connection establishment interruptible
* #5253 Make data node command execution interruptible
* #5262 Extend enabling compression on a continuous aggregrate with 'compress_segmentby' and 'compress_orderby' parameters

**Bugfixes**

> * #4926 Fix corruption when inserting into compressed chunks

Reviewer 2: @mahipv this is one of the major features for 2.10.0, not a bug fix. Let's move it up in the features section

Also the title is not correct, it should be: `Refactor INSERT into compressed chunks`

* #5214 Fix use of prepared statement in async module
* #5218 Add role-level security to job error log
* #5239 Fix next_start calculation for fixed schedules

> * #5290 Compression can't be enabled on continuous aggregates when segmentby/orderby columns need quotation

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* #5290 Fix enabling compression on continuous aggregates with columns requiring quotation
```

+**Thanks**
* @henriquegelio for reporting the issue on fixed schedules

> ## 2.9.3 (2023-02-03)

Reviewer 2: @mahipv I can not add a comment for the 3 lines below -can you please also apply the following update?

```diff
-This release contains bug fixes since the 2.9.2 release.
-This release is high priority for upgrade. We strongly recommend that you
-upgrade as soon as possible.
+This release contains bug fixes since the 2.9.2 release and a fix for a security vulnerability (#5259).
+You can check the security advisory(https://github.com/timescale/timescaledb/security/advisories/GHSA-44jh-j22r-33wq)
+for more information on the vulnerability and the platforms that are affected.
+
+This release is high priority for upgrade. We strongly recommend that you upgrade as soon as possible.
```

## Unreleased

> ## 2.10.0 (2023-02-16)

Reviewer 3: It seems the `This release contains ..` section is missing for 2.10

**Features**
* #4874 Allow joins in continuous aggregates
* #4926 Refactor INSERT into compressed chunks
* #5241 Allow RETURNING clause when inserting into compressed chunks
* #5243 Enable real-time aggregation for continuous aggregates with joins
* #5245 Manage life-cycle of connections via memory contexts
* #5246 Make connection establishment interruptible
* #5253 Make data node command execution interruptible
* #5262 Extend enabling compression on a continuous aggregrate with 'compress_segmentby' and 'compress_orderby' parameters

**Bugfixes**
* #5214 Fix use of prepared statement in async module
* #5218 Add role-level security to job error log
* #5239 Fix next_start calculation for fixed schedules
* #5290 Fix enabling compression on continuous aggregates with columns requiring quotation

> +**Thanks**

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Thanks**
```

There is a `+` at the beginning of the line (hard to see in the diff view on GitHub).

## Unreleased

## 2.10.0 (2023-02-16)

This release contains new features and bug fixes since the 2.9.3 release.
We deem it moderate priority for upgrading.

**Features**

> * #4874 Allow joins in continuous aggregates

Reviewer 4: Isn't this considered noteworthy feature?

Reviewer 4: Another thing to consider @iroussos is about full support for PG15, I guess this release we do it, right?

Author: would this change be fine?

This release includes these noteworthy features:
* Joins in continuous aggregates

* #4926 Refactor INSERT into compressed chunks
* #5241 Allow RETURNING clause when inserting into compressed chunks

> * #5243 Enable real-time aggregation for continuous aggregates with joins

Reviewer 4: Why another CHANGELOG entry if it is part of "Allow joins in continuous aggregates"?? Perhaps we should mix both together in the same entry

Reviewer 2: I will definitely propose to do so on the release notes and the announcement; your call on the changelog (I am not sure if we want to list every single PR or not)

Reviewer 4: In this case IMHO just the first entry is enough since we reduce the scope of the CAggs Joins and have time to add more capabilities on it before release.

## Unreleased

## 2.10.0 (2023-02-16)

This release contains new features and bug fixes since the 2.9.3 release.
We deem it moderate priority for upgrading.

> This release includes these noteworthy features:

Reviewer 2: Yes adding announcement for PG15 and deprecations for PG12 and the old format of Continuous Aggregates

* Joins in continuous aggregates

> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Re-architecture of how compression works: ~2x improvement on INSERT rate into compressed chunks. 
* Full PostgreSQL 15 support for all existing features. Support for the newly introduced MERGE command on hypertables will be added on the next release. 

**PostgreSQL 12 deprecation announcement**
We will continue supporting PostgreSQL 12 until July 2023. Sooner to that time, we will announce the specific version of TimescaleDB in which PostgreSQL 12 support will not be included going forward.

**Old format of Continuous Aggregates deprecation announcement**
TimescaleDB 2.7 introduced a new format for continuous aggregates that improves performance.
All instances with Continuous Aggregates using the old format should [migrate to the new format](https://docs.timescale.com/api/latest/continuous-aggregates/cagg_migrate/) by July 2023, 
when support for the old format will be removed. 
Sooner to that time, we will announce the specific version of TimescaleDB in which support for this feature will not be included going forward.

```

Reviewer 2: @jfjoly @fabriziomello @horzsolt kind request for a quick check on the above and a thumbs if you agree so that we can continue with merging this PR

Reviewer 5: `Support for the newly introduced MERGE command on hypertables will be added on the next release.`

Do you think we should mention this? I know we are nearly there to finalize this feature, but it is still in review and receiving comments. Also, saying the `next release` might be misleading, I'm afraid reading this there will be customer who will expect this feature in 2.10.1.

Reviewer 2: @horzsolt Yeah I will update to `the next minor release`

I wanted this there otherwise `Full PostgreSQL 15 support` would be misleading. What do you think?

Reviewer 5: Ahh, I see. Maybe we can say `PostgreSQL 15 is backward compatible with the existing TimescaleDB features`, or something similar?

Reviewer 4: I agree with everything discussed here!

Reviewer 6: The current version looks great, thanks for updating the changelog 🚀

## Unreleased

> ## 2.10.0 (2023-02-16)

Reviewer 3: Could you order the entries in the _Features_ and _Bugfixes_ section by PR id?

* #5290 Compression can't be enabled on continuous aggregates when segmentby/orderby columns need quotation
* #5239 Fix next_start calculation for fixed schedules

+**Thanks**

> * @emizero for requesting the enhancement of enabling compression on continous aggregates.
> * @mfundul for reporting the corruption issue on compressed chunks.
> * @henriquegelio for reporting the issue on fixed schedules.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* @henriquegelio for reporting an issue with fixed schedules
```
We don't include internally reported items in the thanks section
